# Real Estate Inventories 
My data set is a compilation of real estate metrics from realtor.com. This data set contains information about house location, price, days on market, and the amount of listings in a given city. I chose questions that I felt would be both interesting to answer and relevant to the broader public.
What impact does a house's location have on its list price?
What impact does the amount of inventory have on list price?
Which coast of the country has a higher average list price?

## Introduction 
I chose this data set because I thought it would be interesting to analyze since it has practical applications. Most people in America buy a house at some point, and the questions I answered should provide useful information that can assist them when they are looking for homes. In addition, I think it is interesting how home metrics vary across the country, so I was excited to have a chance to analyze the data more closely. 
`code`

### Data Set
This data was generated by realtor.com, and it is   . Realtor.com also owns this data set, and on thier website they allow people to use it as long as they cite the company in their project. 
### Process
To answer my questions, I frist utilized top down design and wrote my program setps in pseudocode. I found this to be very helpful as it gave me a clear outline of what I needed to accomplish in my code. For certian questions, I decided that it would be beneficial to simplify my data set, like in question 1, where I hard coded a list of small vs. large metro areas. I tried to pick a variety of metro areas around the country so I could have a varied data set and still get the most accurate results possible. 
    For all of my quesions, I need the indicies of important elements in the header of the data set. For instance, priceIndex was a variable I used in every question, as it was an easy way to access the price of each house when parsing the file. In addition, the use of ArrayLists was helpful because their methods such as get(), add(), and indexOf() were useful when I was trying to either create a new ArrayList or compare the current line of the file with an ArrayList I had already made. Another part of my process was creating helper methods such as convertToArrayList and averageAL. I quickly realized that these were tasks I needed to do frequently in my code, so having a method to do it for me was very helpful, as it streamlined my code and made the program more general and adaptable. 
### Challenges 
While coding, I experienced many challenges that at times made it difficult to continue working on my project. The main challenge I experienced was an out of bounds error I was getting for my methods for the first two questions. Eventually I realized this was beause the last line of my file, when parsed, did not make an ArrayList that was the same size as the header ArrayList. To debug this error, I used many print statements, which helped me see what individual values were and where my code was going wrong. To fix this error, I just had to make sure my currentLineAL was the same size as the header before executing any of my other code.  

## Conclusion
The results of my project were what I expeted them to be. I found that it is more expensive to live in urban cities versus rural ones, Hawaii has the highest average listing price and West Virginia has the lowest average listing price, and it is more expensive to live on the west coast as opposed to the east coast. There are a variety of factors that produce these results that I did not focus on in may data analysis. For example, part of the reason it is so expensive to live in Hawaii is due to the cost of shipping materials to its remote location. If I were to expand upon this project, I think it would be interesting to go even deeper in the data, such as looking at it by zip code, and see if there are more trends. I limited this project to states and metro areas, so even though I tried to pick a wide variety of locations, there are likely some data points that are unaccounted for due to the scope of my project. 

